### Blog Post 3

I have sought to create an interactive graphic that raises awareness about the issue of fast versus sustainable fashion. Through the opposition in the composition, I have tried to trigger an understanding in the audience of the difference between electing mainstream brands; on the one hand, long-lasting and recyclable materials, and the other, cheaply sourced and quickly disposed garments. To me, the audience of the graphic should be fast fashion consumers. They should be alerted to their contribution to problems of pollution resulting from the fast turnover of the fashion industry. When making consumer choices, transparency of their purchase is essential, and hopefully will instigate a shift in consumer behavior. 

The image of the burning t-shirt was sourced from Fashion Revolution. This nonprofit organization was founded in 2013 after the Rhana Plaza disaster in which a factory in Bangladesh manufacturing clothing for fast fashion brands burnt down. After this catastrophe, the organization sought to raise awareness about where clothing is sourced, by whom, in what conditions, and with what extent of environmental footprint. Since, they have created manifestos, zines, and host a range of resources for finding information about the ethics and environmental degradation at root in the fashion sector. In flicking through one of their zines, I found an article titled “Deadstock”. In this piece, the problem of leftover stock is addressed; the amount of clothing that is filling secondhand markets, being sent to overflowing landfills, or being burnt. For me, this is such an important issue to address and to convey to the viewer as it is not widely known. 

I first became interested in fashion and sustainability when I created a magazine called “Sustain” for The Standard online platform at Duke. Through this magazine, we hoped to raise awareness to Duke students about the extent of environmental degradation that is currently being caused by the complexity of the supply chain system. After witnessing the impact the publication had, I was further motivated to write a dissertation on the failure of communication of the issue in mainstream magazines, with a specific focus on Vogue magazine. This work is therefore extremely close to my academic interests at Duke, and also to future endeavors to promote sustainability in fashion consumerism. 

Both artists Jeff Koons and Wolfgang Laib find satisfaction, happiness and ease in their artwork through their self-immersive experience in the physicality of it. When they speak of their artistic processes, you can see their pride for what they have produced, collected, or manipulated. They also show how their life experiences significantly impact the foundations of their work. In the case of Koons, he found his place and sense of existence through creating art forms. Being able to spend his daily activity innovating, made him find himself and find contentment in the goings on of his life. Laib also highlights his satisfaction of his sense of self absorbed through his artwork. It is clear that his collection of pollen is a form of meditation; he feels relaxed and directed by his collecting in isolation. 

To further this, both Koons and Laib care about sharing their work – how it will resonate with the world and how they will bring a new perspective to their viewers. Laib clearly shows this in his statement: “the pollen piece is much more important than me.” That line strongly resonated with me in that it is clear that his purpose in creation is to share with the world a new lens, a new simplistic beauty of a square collection of yellow pollen. 

Hillary Lloyd adds a more ambiguous connection with her artwork. While Koons and Laib clearly feel personally immersed and seek to highlight a reflection of themselves in their work, Lloyd argues that there is not something that she specifically tries to document or relate to her audience. She does acknowledge that she finds her work aesthetically pleasing and interesting in the way the video installations are positioned in the museum space, physically blocking the audience’s navigation. Yet, she still thinks the works should not be understood nor necessarily be appreciated. 

It feels as though each artist approaches their work differently. Koons appears to collaborate in its production and connects strongly with what he is generating. Laib brings a piece of his past in his work – he relays to us the disjunction between the intensity of his job in medicine in comparison to the solitary peace of collecting pollen in small villages every summer. Llyod is enthused by the thrill of the immediate and how she can capture through video the essence of a fleeting moment, without any particular intellectual, social or political influence.

My work feels departed from what they have produced. I find that the graphic does not show a connection to my sense of self. While it is closely linked to my academic interests, it does not resemble a part of me or my personal history. I also find that I most closely relate to Lloyd in that I enjoy how my work obstructs the viewers’ interaction with their gaze; the screen disturbs their understanding of the functioning of the canvas. I seek to form a further sense of abstraction in the development of my piece; currently, I find the work too literal and want to generate a further inclination to understand the subject matter further by probing closer inspection and attention. 

#BlogPost3